Create rule S7003: Detect Azure Functions Secrets (APPSEC-1847) (#4040)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S7003/secrets/rule.adoc

permissions the key has.

There are three types of keys that can be used to authenticate requests to an
Azure Function:

* **Function key**: Provides access to a specific function.
* **Host key**: Provides access to all functions within a function app.
* **System key**: Provides access to all functions within a function app and allows for administrative actions.

Leaking these keys can result in unintended access to the functions and data they control.

Below are some real-world scenarios that illustrate some impacts of an attacker
exploiting the key.

:secret_type: authentication key

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/data_compromise.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/data_modification.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/financial_loss.adoc[]

== How to fix it

=== Use app-level security

As described in the https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-http-webhook-trigger?tabs=python-v2%2Cisolated-process%2Cnodejs-v4%2Cfunctionsv2&pivots=programming-language-csharp#secure-an-http-endpoint-in-production[Azure Functions documentation],

> you can secure your HTTP function endpoints by using App-level security, and

Reviewer: There are a few more uppercase "App-level" here.

> you can secure your HTTP function endpoints by using App-level security, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can secure your HTTP function endpoints by using app-level security, and
```

remove the need to use hardcoded keys.

The first step is thus to set the HTTP-triggered function authorization level to
`anonymous`.

> Then, examples of App-level security include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, examples of app-level security include:
```

* authentication/authorization, either from the framework of your choice or https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-authentication-authorization#why-use-the-built-in-authentication[Built-in Azure App Service Authentication/Authorization]
* Azure https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/api-management-policies#authentication-policies[API Management Authentication Policies]
* request authentication with the https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/environment/integrate-with-application-gateway[Azure App Service Environment]

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,bash]
----
curl -G \
  $'https://example.azurewebsites.net/api/example'  \
  -d code=2PLqsO9INfpK8sgTS2BCsZXS6Dgzgz3bydKcq5TBcY8WAzFuqGlKRw==' # Noncompliant
```

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/description.adoc[]

== Why is this an issue?

As described in the
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-http-webhook-trigger?tabs=python-v2%2Cisolated-process%2Cnodejs-v4%2Cfunctionsv2&pivots=programming-language-csharp#authorization-keys[Azure Functions documentation],
Azure Functions let you use keys to make it harder to access your HTTP function endpoints *during development*. 

While keys provide a default security mechanism, distributing them in public
apps is a bad practice and can lead to security and maintainability issues.

=== What is the potential impact?

The impact of this access depends on what the Azure Function does and what
permissions the key has.

There are three types of keys that can be used to authenticate requests to an
Azure Function:

* **Function key**: Provides access to a specific function.
* **Host key**: Provides access to all functions within a function app.
* **System key**: Provides access to all functions within a function app and allows for administrative actions.

Leaking these keys can lead to unintended access to the functions and data they

> control, during development time, for example.

Reviewer: The "during development time" here feels a bit odd. Maybe leave it away?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I did not know how to phrase it at the time

> Leaking these keys can lead to unintended access to the functions and data they
> control, during development time, for example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Leaking these keys can result in unintended access to the functions and data they control.
```

Below are some real-world scenarios that illustrate some impacts of an attacker
exploiting the key.

:secret_type: authentication key

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/data_compromise.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/data_modification.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/financial_loss.adoc[]

== How to fix it

> === Use App-level security

Reviewer: `App-level` is not a name and it is written all lower-cases in the Microsoft doc. I think it should be lowercase in this RSPEC as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Use app-level security
```

As described in the https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-http-webhook-trigger?tabs=python-v2%2Cisolated-process%2Cnodejs-v4%2Cfunctionsv2&pivots=programming-language-csharp#secure-an-http-endpoint-in-production[Azure Functions documentation],
you can secure your HTTP function endpoints by using App-level security, and
remove the need to use hardcoded keys.

The first step is thus to set the HTTP-triggered function authorization level to
`anonymous`.

Then, examples of App-level security include:

> * Authentication/Authorization, either from the framework of your choice, or https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-authentication-authorization#why-use-the-built-in-authentication[Built-in Azure App Service Authentication/Authorization]
> * Azure https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/api-management-policies#authentication-policies[API Management Authentication Policies]
> * Or request authentication with the https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/environment/integrate-with-application-gateway[Azure App Service Environment].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* authentication/authorization, either from the framework of your choice or https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-authentication-authorization#why-use-the-built-in-authentication[Built-in Azure App Service Authentication/Authorization]
* Azure https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/api-management-policies#authentication-policies[API Management Authentication Policies]
* request authentication with the https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/environment/integrate-with-application-gateway[Azure App Service Environment]
```

Adjusted to match [styling guide](https://github.com/SonarSource/rspec/blob/master/docs/styling_guide.adoc#lists).

you can secure your HTTP function endpoints by using app-level security, and
remove the need to use hardcoded keys.

The first step is thus to set the HTTP-triggered function authorization level to
`anonymous`.

Then, examples of app-level security include:

* authentication/authorization, either from the framework of your choice or https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-authentication-authorization#why-use-the-built-in-authentication[Built-in Azure App Service Authentication/Authorization]
* Azure https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/api-management-policies#authentication-policies[API Management Authentication Policies]
* request authentication with the https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/environment/integrate-with-application-gateway[Azure App Service Environment]

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,bash]
----
curl -G \
  $'https://example.azurewebsites.net/api/example'  \

>   -d code=2PLqsO9INfpK8sgTS2BCsZXS6Dgzgz3bydKcq5TBcY8WAzFuqGlKRw==' # Noncompliant

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -d code=2PLqsO9INfpK8sgTS2BCsZXS6Dgzgz3bydKcq5TBcY8WAzFuqGlKRw==' # Noncompliant
----
  
```

As described in the https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-http-webhook-trigger?tabs=python-v2%2Cisolated-process%2Cnodejs-v4%2Cfunctionsv2&pivots=programming-language-csharp#secure-an-http-endpoint-in-production[Azure Functions documentation],
you can secure your HTTP function endpoints by using app-level security, and
remove the need to use hardcoded keys.

The first step is thus to set the HTTP-triggered function authorization level to
`anonymous`.

Then, examples of app-level security include:

* authentication/authorization, either from the framework of your choice or https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview-authentication-authorization#why-use-the-built-in-authentication[Built-in Azure App Service Authentication/Authorization]
* Azure https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/api-management-policies#authentication-policies[API Management Authentication Policies]
* request authentication with the https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/environment/integrate-with-application-gateway[Azure App Service Environment]

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,bash]
----
curl -G \

>   $'https://example.azurewebsites.net/api/example'  \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  'https://example.azurewebsites.net/api/example'  \
```
